doc/requirements.rst, before:

The `PlotPy` package requires the following Python modules:

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :align: left

    * - Name
      - Version
      - Summary
    * - Python
      - >=3.9, <4
      - Python programming language
    * - guidata
      - >=3.11
      - Automatic GUI generation for easy dataset editing and display
    * - PythonQwt
      - >=0.14
      - Qt plotting widgets for Python
    * - SciPy
      - >=1.5
      - Fundamental algorithms for scientific computing in Python
    * - scikit-image
      -  >= 0.18
      - Image processing in Python
    * - Pillow
      - 
      - Python Imaging Library (Fork)
    * - tifffile
      - 
      - Read and write TIFF files

Optional modules for GUI support (Qt):

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :align: left

    * - Name
      - Version
      - Summary
    * - PyQt5
      - >=5.11
      - Python bindings for the Qt cross platform application toolkit

Optional modules for development:

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :align: left

    * - Name
      - Version
      - Summary
    * - babel
      - 
      - Internationalization utilities
    * - Coverage
      - 
      - Code coverage measurement for Python
    * - Cython
      - >=3.0
      - The Cython compiler for writing C extensions in the Python language.
    * - pylint
      - 
      - python code static checker
    * - ruff
      - 
      - An extremely fast Python linter and code formatter, written in Rust.

Optional modules for building the documentation:

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :align: left

    * - Name
      - Version
      - Summary
    * - PyQt5
      - 
      - Python bindings for the Qt cross platform application toolkit
    * - sphinx
      - 
      - Python documentation generator
    * - myst_parser
      - 
      - An extended [CommonMark](https://spec.commonmark.org/) compliant parser,
    * - sphinx-copybutton
      - 
      - Add a copy button to each of your code cells.
    * - sphinx_qt_documentation
      - 
      - Plugin for proper resolve intersphinx references for Qt elements
    * - python-docs-theme
      - 
      - The Sphinx theme for the CPython docs and related projects

Optional modules for running test suite:

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :align: left

    * - Name
      - Version
      - Summary
    * - pytest
      - 
      - pytest: simple powerful testing with Python
    * - pytest-xvfb
      - 
      - A pytest plugin to run Xvfb (or Xephyr/Xvnc) for tests.

Commit message:

Updated dependencies following NumPy vulnerability report (>=1.22)

doc/requirements.rst, after:

The `PlotPy` package requires the following Python modules:

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :align: left

    * - Name
      - Version
      - Summary
    * - Python
      - >=3.9, <4
      - Python programming language
    * - guidata
      -  >= 3.11
      - Automatic GUI generation for easy dataset editing and display
    * - PythonQwt
      -  >= 0.14
      - Qt plotting widgets for Python
    * - numpy
      -  >= 1.22
      - Fundamental package for array computing in Python
    * - SciPy
      -  >= 1.7.3
      - Fundamental algorithms for scientific computing in Python
    * - scikit-image
      -  >= 0.19
      - Image processing in Python
    * - Pillow
      - 
      - Python Imaging Library (Fork)
    * - tifffile
      - 
      - Read and write TIFF files

Optional modules for GUI support (Qt):

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :align: left

    * - Name
      - Version
      - Summary
    * - PyQt5
      - >=5.15.6
      - Python bindings for the Qt cross platform application toolkit

Optional modules for development:

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :align: left

    * - Name
      - Version
      - Summary
    * - babel
      - 
      - Internationalization utilities
    * - Coverage
      - 
      - Code coverage measurement for Python
    * - Cython
      - >=3.0
      - The Cython compiler for writing C extensions in the Python language.
    * - pylint
      - 
      - python code static checker
    * - ruff
      - 
      - An extremely fast Python linter and code formatter, written in Rust.

Optional modules for building the documentation:

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :align: left

    * - Name
      - Version
      - Summary
    * - sphinx
      - 
      - Python documentation generator
    * - myst_parser
      - 
      - An extended [CommonMark](https://spec.commonmark.org/) compliant parser,
    * - sphinx-copybutton
      - 
      - Add a copy button to each of your code cells.
    * - sphinx_qt_documentation
      - 
      - Plugin for proper resolve intersphinx references for Qt elements
    * - python-docs-theme
      - 
      - The Sphinx theme for the CPython docs and related projects

Optional modules for running test suite:

.. list-table::
    :header-rows: 1
    :align: left

    * - Name
      - Version
      - Summary
    * - pytest
      - 
      - pytest: simple powerful testing with Python
    * - pytest-xvfb
      - 
      - A pytest plugin to run Xvfb (or Xephyr/Xvnc) for tests.
